---

title: The Eight Sleep Pod Pro Mattress Review

published: false
createdAt: 2021-11-24T08:00:00.730Z

description: |
  The good, the bad, and the promising from the Eight Sleep pod pro mattress.

tags:
  - review

---

# Pros

The pod itself is solidly made. Very beautify but blends into the bedroom very
well. It's something I want to put on display. The only time I notice it making
sound is during the initial priming and an hour or two before the set bed time.
It otherwise runs extremely quiet. Fun nerd tidbit but it actually uses Nactua
fans, so you know it's quiet and quality.

The heating and cooling really work. The most obvious time is laying in the
middle of the bed and feeling two opposite sides, or if you crank it to the max
temperature. Both of which I did. The less obvious times are going to bed with
it set to warm. The best way I've had this described (and I agree) is wearing a
t-shirt directly out of the dryer to bed. Or setting it to slightly cooler where
it won't be immediately obvious to me, but I didn't need to stick my foot out of
the sheets to cool down.

Customer support has been incredible. I have noticed that my rep replies at
night my time, but that can be due to when I submitted my return ticket. Every
question was answered directly and within 24 hours.

# Cons:

It is very stiff. Most reviews say it's about a 6 on the 1 to 10 firmness scale.
As someone who has previously had a rather stiff spring mattress, I'd give this
an 7-8 range. My partner and I are both rather light weight, but when we sleep
our shoulders especially can not sink into the bed, making it very uncomfortable
to sleep in.

The sensor pad in the topper is pretty noticeable. This wouldn't be that bad
except my partner says she can feel it slide when I flip sides.

The app statistics about your sleep seem to be rather inaccurate, but that can
be improved with software updates.

# Things to mention

You can feel the water ways on the topper.

Vibration mode is nice but it does wake up my partner. It's like a phone
vibrating under the pillow. You can hear it with an ear to the pillow (set to a
5 out of 10). Still a cool feature.

# Other purchases

The foundation is alright. Easy to setup. Looks good. Has nice clearance for
storage.

The sheets are made from another company but they are the most comfortable and
breathable sheets I've ever used. I'll probably end up picking up some more.
